Hello, I'm Chloe Hodgkinson.
I'm the head of learning and partner
development at Fauna and Flora International.
A tool that we absolutely love here is
something called the after action review.
It's a really quite simple process.
It's basically used by a team or
a group of people to capture the
lessons learned either during
or after a project or activity.
Why we love it.
It doesn't judge success or failure per se,
but instead concentrates on why things
happen and what we can learn from that.
But crucially, and what's quite
different to a lot of other tools.
Is it asks you to specifically state
what implications this learning
has for future practice.
It's got four key steps with some key
questions associated with each step.
So you'd start in the action section.
What was supposed to happen,
but what actually happened and what's
the difference between the two?
You then move down to reflection,
so those kind of deeper
conversations about what worked,
what could have gone better,
what helped the process,
what hindered, and why?
And then gradually you start to pull
out learning from those conversations.
So what did you learn?
Is there anything that's new?
Anything that's been confirmed?
Any new questions that have emerged that actually
you'd quite like to explore a little bit further.
But then, crucially,
it then goes forward to planning.
What does this all mean?
What are we going to do differently?
Stop doing.
What will we continue doing or start doing?
If mistakes were made,
how will we make sure that us
or others won't repeat them?
And what steps can we take to build
these new insights into practice?
So by the end of the process,
you'll have a really neat list of
learning that you can take forward
and potentially share with others.
So how do you actually use it?
It's very much a team activity.
It can be done in person.
It can be done over video call,
even on occasion.
We've done it through individual written
contributions. Generally the more
people that participate the more that can
be recalled, can be learned, can be shared,
can be incorporated back, the different
views you can get in on the discussion.
And the beauty of it,
because it's such a simple, flexible tool.
You can use it for kind of short,
frequent informal group checks.
For example, if I was running a workshop,
we might have 30 minutes after the end
of each day just to run through the
steps just to figure out what went well.
What went less well?
Is there anything we need to
change for practice?
Or you can do more in depth reviews
at the end of big pieces of work.
If you do it regularly,
it can also play a really valuable role in
kind of building trust among team members.
In giving them a safe space to talk
about things where it's not about blame.
It's not about fault,
it's about thinking.
What does this mean for future practice?
It can sometimes help,
depending on what exactly you're discussing
if you have a facilitator,
it just makes sure that you have
someone independent to structure the
process to make sure everything is
captured and to make sure everybody
is free to feed into the process.
And here's a crucial point as well.
You will come out of the process
with specific action items.
It's always a good idea to work with
the team to create kind of clear roles
and responsibilities and timelines
around these things to make sure
it's not just another document
that kind of gathers dust somewhere
in a folder,
but actually it's put into practice.
So discuss how you're going
to action that stuff.
Who's going to lead on it and by when.
And you can also consider who else might
benefit from the learning you've just done.
Is there anything that can be shared
more widely with another team in
your organization with another
individual who might be doing
something similar or even externally?
And we can all do our bit to kind of
share learning and get it out there.